Rory Vaughn
Short analysis of League of Legends
8/23/2015
	In the game of League of legends that I played to write this analysis, I played as the champion named, Cho’ Gath. He is a tanky mage that has a kit (moveset) that is centered on long range poking and very close range burst damage. The main objective is to destroy the enemy team’s nexus before they do the same thing to yours. In order to do this you must take down towers, kill enemy players, and fight for objectives on the map in order to get gold for items. These items have effects and make your champion stronger to help you adapt in order to win the game.

 Some of my team members didn’t do that well in the early game, and they were typing in the chat, “ff,” which showed that they had a negative attitude about the game already because the command ”/ff” starts a surrender vote. I took this into account and focused on trying to make a comeback with objective control (taking down towers, getting buffs, and killing the dragon). This all happened in the “laning phase of the game” in which there are usually one player in the top lane, one player in the jungle, one player in the middle lane, and two in the bottom lane.  These are the positions people play because it is a very good way of spreading out the in game experience points and gold so that every player gains in strength and has the potential to be of use to the team. After getting my team to believe we could win the game, we each go items depending on our role in the game, and grouped up to begin the team fight phase. The reason the style changes to fight in a team late game is because the teams now have items and in game levels, which allows them to do damage, or tank it. Fighting together increases the odds of winning the game because every single person in the fight adds 4 – 8 different abilities that can help to win or lose a game. 

This game is definitely a well-made game. Lower level players may claim that certain champions are overpowered, when the truth is that they are all over powered. However, when everyone is overpowered, no one is. The playstyle of each champion is so unique, and that is what makes the game so fun and complex because there are 10 champions in every game with different abilities and item builds. Yes, there are a total of 3 maps, but it doesn’t get old because of the complexity of the interactions between champions.
	P.S. Sorry this is so long. I just didn’t want to leave an important detail that you might be looking for out.
